README.md, before:

# McLighting v2 - The ESP8266 based multi-client lighting gadget

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/mclighting/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/mclighting/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/toblum/McLighting.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/toblum/McLighting) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-v2.2.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/blob/master/Arduino/McLighting/version.h)

McLighting (the multi-client lighting gadget) is a very cheap internet-controllable lighting solution based on the famous ESP8266 microcontroller and WS2811/2812 led strips. It features among other things a web-interface, a REST-API and a websocket connector.

Because of it's open architecture and APIs it's easy to build new clients for different platforms (iOS, Android, Windows Universal Apps, Siri/Cortana integration, ...). 

[![Demo video WebClient](https://j.gifs.com/kRPrzN.gif)](https://youtu.be/rc6QVHKAXBs)

[![Demo video Apple Homekit integration](https://j.gifs.com/gJP2o6.gif)](https://youtu.be/4JnGXZaPnrw)

---

## The Hardware

The project is based on the ESP8266 and WD2811/WS2812 LED strips. There are many variations of the ESP chip out there, but for beginners we suggest a NodeMCU dev board, as these are as "plug 'n' play"as it can get.
A standalone ESP8266 or an Adafruit Huzzah should work too.

The RGB LED strips are also available in many different flavours (as strips or as standalone LEDs) and can easily be chained.

For a detailed explanation see our wiki: [Hardware](../../wiki/Hardware)


## Software installation

You can read how to get started on the software side of this project 
again in out wiki: [Software installation](../../wiki/Software-installation)

---

### Used Libraries

This project uses libraries and code by different authors:

- [WiFiManager](https://github.com/tzapu/WiFiManager) by tzapu (tested with version 0.12.0)

- [WS2812FX](https://github.com/kitesurfer1404/WS2812FX) by kitesurfer1404 (tested with version downloaded 2017-02-05)

- [WebSockets](https://github.com/Links2004/arduinoWebSockets) by Links2004 (tested with version 2.0.6)

- [Adafruit NeoPixel](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_NeoPixel) by adafruit (tested with 1.1.2)

- Optional: [PubSubClient](https://github.com/knolleary/pubsubclient/) by knolleary (tested with 2.6.0)
  _Only when you have activated MQTT in definitions.h._
  
The sketch also uses the following built-in library:
- Ticker by [@igrr](https://github.com/igrr)

Parts of the code were taken or inspired by the following sources:

- [HSB3RGB conversion](https://blog.adafruit.com/2012/03/14/constant-brightness-hsb-to-rgb-algorithm/)

- [TV simulator](https://github.com/BulldogLowell/PhoneyTV) logic inspired by BulldogLowell
  
- [SPIFFS Webserver](https://github.com/esp8266/Arduino/tree/master/libraries/ESP8266WebServer/examples/FSBrowser) by Hristo Gochkov

Thank you to all the authors for distributing their software that way.
I hope I didn't miss any sources and mentioned every author. In case I forgot someone please let me know and I will fix it.


## Todos
- [ ] Support multiple strips and control them separately or together [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/118)
- [ ] Make number of pixels, MQTT and PIN configurable via front end [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/93) and [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/93)
- [ ] Bundle webpages instead of SPIFFS [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/93)
- [ ] Remove old / wrong EEPROM settings completely [Issue]
- [ ] Customer profile to define segments of (in)active areas on the strip [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/37)
- [ ] Additional clients
- [ ] If no wifi, at least enable button mode.
- [ ] Also enable McLighting in Wifi AP mode.
- [ ] IR remote support [issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLightingUI/issues/3)
- [ ] Multiple buttons/GPIO Inputs. [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/119)
- [ ] Music visualizer / Bring back ArtNet [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/111)
- [ ] Display version and parameters (Number of LEDs, definition settings, ..) in the web UI [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/150)
- [x] MQTT support
- [x] Save favourite effects? [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/35)(https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/101)
- [x] OTA update [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/92)
- [x] Fix issue with websockets connection problems
- [x] Switch to the [NeoPixelBus library](https://github.com/Makuna/NeoPixelBus/wiki)
- [x] Use the led strip for status information in connection phase
- [x] Enhance the documentation
- [x] Stability improvements
- [x] RGBW mode [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/24)
- [x] Add called command to response [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/19)
- [x] Button control [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/36)
- [x] Retain last state [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/47)
- [x] Make a set of NodeRed nodes.


## Licence
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)


## Disclaimer
You use this project at your own risk. This is not a solution that should be used in productive environments, but this code and guide could give you a quick start for your own experiments. Please keep also in mind that there are currently some security features missing.


*More information will be added as soon as I clean up the code and complete documentation.*

Commit message:

Finalizing
 * 10 Mar 2019 v 2.2.2 rgbw 3colors
 * - integraded neoconfig.json into config.json
 * - Add compiler flag for WS2811 strips #define LED_TYPE_WS2811
 * - new "REST API": /config?hostname=xxx to change hostname
 * - new "REST API": /config?mqtt_host=xxx to change mqtt hostname
 * - new "REST API": /config?mqtt_port=xxx to change mqtt port
 * - new "REST API": /config?mqtt_user=xxx to change mqtt username
 * - new "REST API": /config?mqtt_pass=xxx to change mqtt password
 * - new "REST API": /config?ws_fxopt=xxx to change ws2812fx options
 * - Pointers added for PubSubClient & AMQTTCLient
 * - RGBOrder is now stored human readable not as integer
 * - Bugfix on Fire 2012 animation as one variable was destroyed
 *
 * 15 Mar 2019 v 2.2.2 rgbw 3colors
 * websocket commands
 * #   Set Maincolor
 * ##  Set Back color
 * ### Set xtra Color
 * ?   Set speed
 * %   Set brightness
 * *   Set all
 * !   Set single LED
 * +   Set multiple LEDs
 * R   Set Range
 * =   Set named Mode (legacy)
 * $   Get Status
 * new from here
 * C   Get Config
 * Ch  Set hostname
 * Cmh Set mqtt hostname
 * Cmp Set mqtt port
 * Cmu Set mqtt username
 * Cmw Set mqtt password
 * Csc Set Strip LED count
 * Csr Set Strip RGB Order
 * Csp Set Strip pin
 * Cso Set Strip FX Options
 * to here
 * ~   Get Modes
 * /   Set modes
 *
 */

README.md, after:

# McLighting v2 - The ESP8266 based multi-client lighting gadget

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/mclighting/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/mclighting/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/toblum/McLighting.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/toblum/McLighting) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-v2.2.2-blue.svg)](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/blob/master/Arduino/McLighting/version.h)

McLighting (the multi-client lighting gadget) is a very cheap internet-controllable lighting solution based on the famous ESP8266 microcontroller and WS2811/2812 led strips. It features among other things a web-interface, a REST-API and a websocket connector.

Because of it's open architecture and APIs it's easy to build new clients for different platforms (iOS, Android, Windows Universal Apps, Siri/Cortana integration, ...). 

[![Demo video WebClient](https://j.gifs.com/kRPrzN.gif)](https://youtu.be/rc6QVHKAXBs)

[![Demo video Apple Homekit integration](https://j.gifs.com/gJP2o6.gif)](https://youtu.be/4JnGXZaPnrw)

---

## The Hardware

The project is based on the ESP8266 and WD2811/WS2812 LED strips. There are many variations of the ESP chip out there, but for beginners we suggest a NodeMCU dev board, as these are as "plug 'n' play"as it can get.
A standalone ESP8266 or an Adafruit Huzzah should work too.

The RGB LED strips are also available in many different flavours (as strips or as standalone LEDs) and can easily be chained.

For a detailed explanation see our wiki: [Hardware](../../wiki/Hardware)


## Software installation

You can read how to get started on the software side of this project 
again in out wiki: [Software installation](../../wiki/Software-installation)

---

### Used Libraries

This project uses libraries and code by different authors:

- [WiFiManager](https://github.com/tzapu/WiFiManager) by tzapu (tested with version 0.12.0)

- [WS2812FX](https://github.com/kitesurfer1404/WS2812FX) by kitesurfer1404 (tested with version downloaded 2017-02-05)

- [WebSockets](https://github.com/Links2004/arduinoWebSockets) by Links2004 (tested with version 2.0.6)

- [Adafruit NeoPixel](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_NeoPixel) by adafruit (tested with 1.1.2)

- Optional: [PubSubClient](https://github.com/knolleary/pubsubclient/) by knolleary (tested with 2.6.0)
  _Only when you have activated MQTT in definitions.h._
  
The sketch also uses the following built-in library:
- Ticker by [@igrr](https://github.com/igrr)

Parts of the code were taken or inspired by the following sources:

- [HSB3RGB conversion](https://blog.adafruit.com/2012/03/14/constant-brightness-hsb-to-rgb-algorithm/)

- [TV simulator](https://github.com/BulldogLowell/PhoneyTV) logic inspired by BulldogLowell
  
- [SPIFFS Webserver](https://github.com/esp8266/Arduino/tree/master/libraries/ESP8266WebServer/examples/FSBrowser) by Hristo Gochkov

Thank you to all the authors for distributing their software that way.
I hope I didn't miss any sources and mentioned every author. In case I forgot someone please let me know and I will fix it.


## Todos
- [ ] Support multiple strips and control them separately or together [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/118)
- [ ] Remove old / wrong EEPROM settings completely [Issue]
- [ ] Customer profile to define segments of (in)active areas on the strip [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/37)
- [ ] Additional clients
- [ ] If no wifi, at least enable button mode.
- [ ] Also enable McLighting in Wifi AP mode.
- [ ] Multiple buttons/GPIO Inputs. [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/119)
- [ ] IR remote support [issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLightingUI/issues/3)
- [ ] Make number of pixels, MQTT and PIN configurable via front end [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/93) and [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/272)
- [ ] Make switching between methods: Adafruit NeoPixel, NeoPixelBus's DMA, NeoPixelBus's UART1 and NeoPixelBus's UART2 via REST API
- [x] Make number of pixels, RGB Order and PIN configurable via REST API
- [x] Bundle webpages instead of SPIFFS [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/93)
- [x] Music visualizer / Bring back ArtNet [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/111)
- [x] Display version and parameters (Number of LEDs, definition settings, ..) in the web UI [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/150)
- [x] MQTT support
- [x] Save favourite effects? [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/35)(https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/101)
- [x] OTA update [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/92)
- [x] Fix issue with websockets connection problems
- [x] Switch to the [NeoPixelBus library](https://github.com/Makuna/NeoPixelBus/wiki)
- [x] Use the led strip for status information in connection phase
- [x] Enhance the documentation
- [x] Stability improvements
- [x] RGBW mode [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/24)
- [x] Add called command to response [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/19)
- [x] Button control [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/36)
- [x] Retain last state [Issue](https://github.com/toblum/McLighting/issues/47)
- [x] Make a set of NodeRed nodes.


## Licence
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)


## Disclaimer
You use this project at your own risk. This is not a solution that should be used in productive environments, but this code and guide could give you a quick start for your own experiments. Please keep also in mind that there are currently some security features missing.


*More information will be added as soon as I clean up the code and complete documentation.*
